# Zero Trust Branch Connector Licensing and Fair Use
Source: https://help.zscaler.com/logs-fair-use/zero-trust-branch-connector-licensing-and-fair-use
PDF: https://help.zscaler.com/pdf/com/en/1468116.pdf

Zero Trust Branch Connector is a Software as a Service (SaaS) that is licensed by the number of sites/locations being protected and the data usage of the protected devices/services for the subscription term. A device/server is defined as an endpoint such as a printer, camera, badge reader, RF scanners, IoT, IIoT, IoMT, server, virtual desktop instances, or other items that have a unique IP address, cannot be used with Zscaler Client Connector software, and are typically located in branch offices, campuses, and data center on-prem locations. If you have a Guest Wi-Fi subscription, all gigabyte (GB) usage and endpoints are excluded from the overall GB allowed from the site.
The number of protected devices is determined by counting the unique IP addresses for each of the protected endpoint types and applying the number to the subscription term. These unique IP addresses are counted at an hourly interval. The total count is calculated by averaging the hourly count over a month. All endpoints and data transfers (in GB) accounted for in Guest Wi-Fi SKUs are excluded.
Ensure that you order the correct number of sites and additional data usage as needed. If additional data usage is needed during a subscription term, refer to Zscaler Sales or your Channel Partner. Zscaler monitors and periodically reviews the number of licensed protected workloads and their bandwidth usage to ensure license compliance.
Fair Use Policy
The usage of Zero Trust Branch Connector is expected to be in accordance with the [Acceptable Use Policy](/legal/acceptable-use-policy). The Fair Use Policy for Zero Trust Branch Connector is that the average data transfer from 50 devices/servers per site is 100 GB for each month. If the usage exceeds the acceptable amount, contact Zscaler Sales or your Channel Partner to discuss available options.