# Step-by-Step Configuration Guide for EASM
Source: https://help.zscaler.com/easm/step-step-configuration-guide-easm
PDF: https://help.zscaler.com/pdf/com/en/1503641.pdf

This guide takes you through the configuration steps you need to complete to begin using EASM for your organization. Each step guides you through essential tasks, ensuring you are fully equipped to start securing and monitoring your external attack surface efficiently.
Zscaler recommends reviewing the following articles to learn more about the EASM configuration:
- [What is Zscaler EASM?](/easm/what-zscaler-easm)
- [Understanding Asset Discovery](/easm/understanding-asset-discovery)
- [Accessing and Navigating the EASM Admin Portal](/easm/accessing-navigating-easm-admin-portal)
Configuring EASM
To configure EASM, complete the following steps:
- [Step 1: Set Up Your Account](#set-up-account)
- [Step 2: Create Your Organization](#create-organization)
- [Step 3: Configure a Discovery Profile](#configure-discovery-profile)
- [Step 4: Get Your Asset Inventory Information](#get-asset-inventory-information)
- [Step 5: Monitor Your Attack Surface Using Dashboards](#monitor-attack-surface)
[]After Zscaler provisions an EASM tenant for your organization, an email with instructions to complete your account registration is sent to you. To gain access to the EASM Admin Portal, you need to complete the account registration process by following the instructions in the email. To learn more, see [Accessing and Navigating the EASM Admin Portal](/easm/accessing-and-navigating-easm-admin-portal).
Following your account setup, you can provision users on ZIdentity, Zscaler's centralized identity management platform, to provide them access to EASM. To do this, ensure that you have ZIdentity enabled for your organization. After provisioning is complete, you can assign roles to users to manage controlled access to specific organizations within the EASM Admin Portal. To learn more, see [Creating & Managing Roles](/easm/creating-managing-roles).
[]The first step in setting up your attack surface discovery is to create an organization and configure a discovery profile for the organization. EASM offers a default organization out of the box, which you can configure to set up your discovery profile. Additionally, if your organization uses Zscaler's Risk Management platform, [Risk360](/risk360/what-risk360), and if you have a Risk360 tenant, an organization is created for you in the EASM Admin Portal through the seamless integration between Risk360 and EASM.
In addition, you can create new organizations to discover and distinctly monitor the attack surface associated with different entities of your enterprise. To learn more, see [Creating & Managing Organizations](/easm/creating-managing-organizations).
[]To begin the discovery process for your internet-facing assets, EASM requires a known, legitimate asset from your organization, referred to as a "seed". This seed acts as the central node to discover connected assets in your digital asset infrastructure that are exposed to the internet, using various open-source intelligence (OSINT) methods employed by EASM. A discovery profile allows you to group multiple seeds and submit them for scanning. You can configure different types of assets as seeds, including domains, IP addresses, and IP blocks. To learn more, see [Creating & Managing Discovery Profiles](/easm/creating-managing-discovery-profiles).
[]After the initial scan, EASM compiles extensive data on the internet-facing assets that are discovered and inventoried as part of your organization's digital attack surface. This asset inventory consists of a vast amount of data that includes critical information such as asset details, key insights into vulnerabilities and risks, and the asset's relationship to your organization. The asset inventory is continuously updated through periodic scans, ensuring it reflects your evolving digital landscape with the latest data in the EASM Admin Portal.
To get a high-level view of your threat landscape and assess your organization's security posture, you can start with the key metrics presented in EASM's dashboards. These dashboards summarize key information about your digital attack surface in highly interactive, visual representations that are easy to understand. Using these dashboards, you can identify the most critical threats in your asset infrastructure and then drill down on the individual assets or risk findings for further analysis. The dashboards essentially serve as the starting points for understanding your asset infrastructure, identifying key areas of concerns, and efficiently planning risk-mitigation strategies. To learn more, see [Accessing & Interacting with Insights Overview Dashboard](/easm/accessing-interacting-insights-overview-dashboard) and [Accessing & Interacting with Assets Overview Dashboard](/easm/accessing-interacting-assets-overview-dashboard).
To analyze the individual assets in your inventory, EASM offers a customizable, tabulated list of the assets on the Assets page. You can customize the list by using filters to view specific asset data and further access detailed information to investigate each asset from this page. To learn more, see [About Asset Inventory](/easm/about-asset-inventory) and [Understanding Assets Details](/easm/understanding-asset-details).
EASM also catalogs the risk findings discovered for the assets in a separate, highly customizable Findings page (Insights > Findings). This page provides essential information to help you assess the severity of risks, prioritize them, and plan mitigation strategies. To learn more, see [About Findings](/easm/about-findings) and [Understanding Finding Details](/easm/understanding-finding-details).
[]EASM continuously monitors your asset infrastructure through periodic scans, ensuring your asset inventory is always up to date with the latest information. These scans can detect changes such as new assets detected in your attack surface through connections to existing assets or removal of previously discovered assets. You can track and monitor these changes in your digital attack surface and take remediation actions by using the key metrics presented on assets and risk findings in EASM's dashboards. To learn more, see [Accessing & Interacting with Insights Overview Dashboard](/easm/accessing-interacting-insights-overview-dashboard) and [Accessing & Interacting with Assets Overview Dashboard](/easm/accessing-interacting-assets-overview-dashboard).