# Deploying Zscaler Internet Access in China
Source: https://help.zscaler.com/zia/deploying-zscaler-internet-access-china
PDF: https://help.zscaler.com/pdf/com/en/1414841.pdf

The Zscaler Reference Architecture series delivers best practices based on real-world deployments. The recommendations in this series were developed by Zscaler's transformation experts from across the company. This guide will steer you through the architecture process and provide technical deep dives into specific platform functionality and integrations. The Zscaler Reference Architecture series is designed to be modular, so this guide will show you how to configure a different aspect of the platform in order to allow you meet your specific policy goals.
Accessing the internet from China is a well-known issue for many organizations. Where in most of the world you can expect consistent and unregulated access, China is unique in its complexity as both the technical and regulatory environments change rapidly. To successfully operate within this environment requires a new approach to network operations. To help you navigate this difficult environment, Zscaler has developed solutions with service providers inside of China. Zscaler's partnership includes deploying ZIA Public Service Edge data centers within China, and ZIA Private Service Edge devices within the service providers themselves.
[Deploying Zscaler Internet Access in China](/downloads/zia/reference-architecture/deploying-zscaler-internet-access-china/Deploying-Zscaler-Internet-Access-in-China-Reference-Architecture.pdf) [Download PDF](/downloads/zia/reference-architecture/deploying-zscaler-internet-access-china/Deploying-Zscaler-Internet-Access-in-China-Reference-Architecture.pdf)