# User Provisioning and Authentication to Zscaler Services
Source: https://help.zscaler.com/zia/user-provisioning-and-authentication-zscaler-services
PDF: https://help.zscaler.com/pdf/com/en/1451371.pdf

The Zscaler Reference Architecture series delivers best practices based on real-world deployments. The recommendations in this series were developed by Zscaler's transformation experts from across the company. This guide will steer you through the architecture process and provide technical deep dives into specific platform functionality and integrations. The Zscaler Reference Architecture series is designed to be modular, so this guide will show you how to configure a different aspect of the platform in order to allow you meet your specific policy goals.
With Zscaler Internet Access (ZIA), you can enable zero trust access to internet sites and web applications. This least-privilege access model gives you the controls to enforce your acceptable use policy (AUP). Unlike traditional firewalls and other controls, Zscaler builds policy based on more than just user credentials. Instead of building and fitting a user into roles, you can design policies with conditions that must be true for your users to be granted access to resources.
[User Provisioning and Authentication to Zscaler Services: Reference Architecture Guide](/downloads/zia/reference-architecture/user-provisioning-and-authentication-zscaler-services/User-Provisioning-and-Authentication-to-Zscaler-Services-Reference-Architecture.pdf) [Download PDF](/downloads/zia/reference-architecture/user-provisioning-and-authentication-zscaler-services/User-Provisioning-and-Authentication-to-Zscaler-Services-Reference-Architecture.pdf)