# Universal ZTNA with Zscaler Private Access Private Service Edge
Source: https://help.zscaler.com/zpa/universal-ztna-zscaler-private-access-private-service-edge
PDF: https://help.zscaler.com/pdf/com/en/1485496.pdf

The Zscaler Reference Architecture series delivers best practices based on real-world deployments. The recommendations in this series were developed by Zscaler's transformation experts from across the company. This guide will steer you through the architecture process and provide technical deep dives into specific platform functionality and integrations. The Zscaler Reference Architecture series is designed to be modular, so this guide will show you how to configure a different aspect of the platform in order to allow you meet your specific policy goals.
Zero trust network access (ZTNA), also known as the software-defined perimeter (SDP), is a set of technologies and functionalities that enable secure access to internal applications for users. It operates on an adaptive trust model, where trust is never implicit, and access is granted on a least privileged basis defined by granular policies. ZTNA gives remote users seamless, secure connectivity to private applications without ever placing them on the network or exposing apps to the internet. Zscaler Private Access (ZPA) delivers ZTNA to organizations that need to access internal applications in public clouds, private clouds, and in the organization's data centers, through policies made up of criteria you define.
[Universal ZTNA with Zscaler Private Access Private Service Edge: Reference Architecture Guide](/downloads/zpa/reference-architecture/universal-ztna-zscaler-private-access-private-service-edge/Universal-ZTNA-with-Zscaler-Private-Access-Private-Service-Edge.pdf) [Download PDF](/downloads/zpa/reference-architecture/universal-ztna-zscaler-private-access-private-service-edge/Universal-ZTNA-with-Zscaler-Private-Access-Private-Service-Edge.pdf)