# Protecting Private Applications with ZPA AppProtection
Source: https://help.zscaler.com/zpa/protecting-private-applications-zpa-appprotection
PDF: https://help.zscaler.com/pdf/com/en/1485991.pdf

The Zscaler Reference Architecture series delivers best practices based on real-world deployments. The recommendations in this series were developed by Zscaler's transformation experts from across the company. This guide will steer you through the architecture process and provide technical deep dives into specific platform functionality and integrations. The Zscaler Reference Architecture series is designed to be modular, so this guide will show you how to configure a different aspect of the platform in order to allow you meet your specific policy goals.
ZPA AppProtection controls enable you to protect your internal application traffic from many types of attacks. AppProtection allows you to do inline inspection of application flows in real time, and to inspect them for malicious content. This includes HTTPS traffic through real-time inspection of encrypted traffic. AppProtection provides you with built-in controls for the most common attack types. These include the Open Worldwide Application Security Project (OWASP) Top 10 list covering common attacks such as Structured Query Language (SQL) injections and cross-site scripting (XSS). The system also watches for network discovery tools such as port scanners. These controls enable you to quickly eliminate the most common types of attacks on your system.
[Protecting Private Applications with ZPA AppProtection: Reference Architecture Guide](/downloads/zpa/reference-architecture/protecting-private-applications-zpa-appprotection/protecting-private-applications-with-zpa-appprotection-reference-architecture.pdf) [Download PDF](/downloads/zpa/reference-architecture/protecting-private-applications-zpa-appprotection/protecting-private-applications-with-zpa-appprotection-reference-architecture.pdf)