# Zero Trust User-to-App Segmentation with ZPA
Source: https://help.zscaler.com/zpa/zero-trust-user-to-app-segmentation-zpa
PDF: https://help.zscaler.com/pdf/com/en/1485376.pdf

The Zscaler Reference Architecture series delivers best practices based on real-world deployments. The recommendations in this series were developed by Zscaler's transformation experts from across the company. This guide will steer you through the architecture process and provide technical deep dives into specific platform functionality and integrations. The Zscaler Reference Architecture series is designed to be modular, so this guide will show you how to configure a different aspect of the platform in order to allow you meet your specific policy goals.
Zero trust has become a popular model for secure user access to applications and resources. Moving away from the traditional VPN style of network access, zero trust is an approach that focuses on granular user-to-app segmentation. Zscaler Private Access (ZPA) gives users access to applications without requiring users to share a network context with the applications. Where VPNs assign a user an IP address and place the user on the network, ZPA enables users to connect only to allowed applications, with no access to adjacent applications or systems. The user can be anywhere, and the application can be hosted in any location. Granular context-based policy can control application visibility and access by end users.
[Download English PDF](/downloads/zpa/reference-architecture/zero-trust-user-to-app-segmentation-zpa/zero-trust-user-to-app-segmentation-with-zpa.pdf)
[Download Japanese PDF](/downloads/zpa/reference-architecture/zero-trust-user-to-app-segmentation-zpa/zero-trust-user-to-app-segmentation-zpa_ja-JP.pdf)