# ZPA Private Service Edge Deployment Prerequisites
Source: https://help.zscaler.com/zpa/zpa-service-edge-deployment-prerequisites
PDF: https://help.zscaler.com/pdf/com/en/1484511.pdf

Before deploying a ZPA Private Service Edge on any supported platform, Zscaler highly recommends reading the following information and making the necessary changes to your organization's environment, where applicable.
Each ZPA Private Service Edge supports up to 500 Mbps of throughput. Use the information on this page to determine the ZPA Private Service Edge sizing requirements for your deployment. For example, with a 1 Gbps aggregate (i.e., total inbound and outbound) connection, you would need to deploy 2 to 3 ZPA Private Service Edges.
500 Mbps of throughput is an aggregate of multiple streams of traffic.
- [ZPA Private Service Edge Specifications and Sizing Requirements](#SpecsSizing)
- [ZPA Private Service Edge Platform Prerequisites](#PlatformPrereqs)
- [ZPA Private Service Edge Security Guidance and Firewall Requirements](#Firewall)
- [ZPA Private Service Edge Zscaler Client Connector Requirements](#ClientConnector)
After you have met all of the prerequisites, you can deploy the ZPA Private Service Edge on a supported platform.
[]The following specifications are recommended by Zscaler for up to 500 Mbps throughput for each ZPA Private Service Edge.
- Memory (RAM) and vCPU (for virtual machines) or CPU (for physical machines) cores:
| Active Users | Memory | vCPU or CPU Cores |
| ------------ | ------ | ----------------- |
| Up to 2,000 | 8 GB (10 GB with ZDX) | 4 vCPUs or 4 CPUs |
| Up to 4,000 | 16 GB (18 GB with ZDX) | 8 vCPUs or 8 CPUs |
| Up to 10,000 | 32 GB (34 GB with ZDX) | 16 vCPUs or 16 CPUs |
To learn more, see the [ZPA Private Service Edge Deployment Guide](/zpa/private-service-edge-management/private-service-edge-deployment-guides-supported-platforms) for your platform.
- Disk Space: 64 GB (thin provisioned) for all deployment platforms
- Network Card: 1 NIC (minimum)
Depending on your deployment use case, each ZPA Private Service Edge must be able to accept incoming connections from either internal or external sources or both internal and external sources on TCP port 443. For example, if you enable ZPA for both remote and office users, each ZPA Private Service Edge needs to accept incoming connections from both internal and external endpoints running Zscaler Client Connector.
ZPA Private Service Edges are reachable over the internet for remote users in a disaster recovery scenario, or when the ZPA Private Service Edge is the closest Service Edge.
In the scenario where a ZPA Private Service Edge is deployed behind a firewall, the firewall performs destination network address translation (DNAT) for the ZPA Private Service Edge's private IP address. In this case, the flow of traffic is from Zscaler Client Connector to the ZPA Private Service Edge. The firewall then translates the destination public IP address that Zscaler Client Connector connects to on the private IP address of the ZPA Private Service Edge. The firewall advertises a public IP address on the internet. It is necessary to configure the public IP address advertised by the firewall as a [publish IP](/zpa/about-zpa-private-service-edges#AbourSvcEdgePage) of the respective ZPA Private Service Edge. In the case of disaster recovery, you must add this IP address as the A record for that ZPA Private Service Edge.
Your firewalls must be configured to let the ZPA Private Service Edge establish outbound connections to the IP addresses of the ZPA Public Service Edge, and establish inbound connections from App Connectors and Zscaler Client Connectors.
The following conditions apply to each ZPA Private Service Edge that is placed behind a firewall:
- They must accept incoming connections from internal sources and remote users and on-premises users (as applicable and dependent on your use case) on TCP port 443.
- They must have a unique private IP address that can be reached over the internal network.
After a ZPA Private Service Edge is enrolled, an outbound TLS tunnel over TCP port 443 is established to the ZPA cloud infrastructure. This communication channel provides various functionality and includes the following traffic:
- Periodic keepalives to the ZPA Public Service Edge
- Policy configuration download
- ZPA Private Service Edge software upgrades (upgrades are completed based on a weekly schedule)
You can deploy additional ZPA Private Service Edges at any time, using the same provisioning key to add them to the existing ZPA Private Service Edge group, while ensuring network and internet connectivity. ZPA Private Service Edges are designed to scale elastically. You can deploy additional ZPA Private Service Edges in the same ZPA Private Service Edge group to increase the total throughput as required by your deployment. Zscaler recommends that you deploy ZPA Private Service Edges in pairs (N+1), where N is the number of ZPA Private Service Edges as per the sizing requirements. To learn more, see [About Deploying ZPA Private Service Edges](/zpa/about-deploying-service-edges) and [Supported Platforms for ZPA Private Service Edges](/zpa/private-service-edge-management/private-service-edge-deployment-guides-supported-platforms).
After deployment, ensure that the ZPA Private Service Edge meets your sizing requirements. To learn more, see [Verify ZPA Private Service Edge Sizing Specifications](/zpa/managing-deployed-zpa-private-service-edges#VerifySizing). If disk space fills up in the ZPA Private Service Edge, Zscaler recommends archiving files and creating more log space. To learn more, see [Monitoring ZPA Private Service Edge Performance](/zpa/monitoring-private-service-edge-performance#diskspace_archive).
Understanding ZPA Private Service Edge Throughput
Throughput numbers are aggregate (i.e., total inbound and outbound). Each ZPA Private Service Edge supports up to 500 Mbps throughput. ZPA Private Service Edges communicate over the provided (default) gateway, which is most likely your ISP WAN broadband connection.
500 Mbps of throughput is an aggregate of multiple streams of traffic.
Zscaler recommends that you check your existing VPN solution's average and peak throughput when determining your sizing requirements. Be sure to only account for user or client VPN traffic and not any site-to-site tunnel traffic.
For example, if you have a 1 Gbps aggregate (i.e., total inbound and outbound) connection in your data center, you can use the 500 Mbps throughput guideline to make sure you have enough ZPA Private Service Edges to support the connection and have room for failover (N+1). In this case, you would need to deploy 2 to 3 ZPA Private Service Edges to support the 1 Gbps connection.
The exact throughput can vary and depends on other network factors such as your internal network setup, latency, and whether you have double encryption, AppProtection, or ZDX enabled. Make sure that you have enough ZPA Private Service Edges to support the connection and room for failover (N+1).
To horizontally scale your deployment, Zscaler recommends that you have more ZPA Private Service Edges with lower specifications rather than fewer ZPA Private Service Edges with higher specifications. For example, if you have fewer ZPA Private Service Edges with higher specifications and one fails, you could adversely affect more user application traffic or sessions than a smaller ZPA Private Service Edge that fails.
[]Before you begin any procedures within the [ZPA Private Service Edge Deployment Guide](/zpa/private-service-edge-management/private-service-edge-deployment-guides-supported-platforms) for your platform, make sure that you have the following:
- Intel x86_64/AMD64-based architecture
- systemd
- Root or sudo access to the system to configure a new package repository and install packages
- DNS resolution and network access
- A [ZPA Private Service Edge provisioning key](/zpa/about-zpa-service-edge-provisioning-keys) obtained from the ZPA Admin Portal
- A static MAC address
[]ZPA Private Service Edges can be deployed in different ways (as private cloud VMs, public cloud VMs, or OS packages), so the security features for each deployment type are slightly different.
Operating System Security
The ZPA Private Service Edge VMs distributed by Zscaler for use in private clouds are configured without any remotely accessible services running. Swap partitions are disabled on the ZPA Private Service Edge and its VMs to ensure that memory growth does not have an impact on the ZPA Private Service Edge performance. For enhanced security, you must use the `passwd` command to change the credentials on the default admin account. To learn more, see the [ZPA Private Service Edge Deployment Guides](/zpa/private-service-edge-management/private-service-edge-deployment-guides-supported-platforms) for the platform you are using.
Security Technical Implementation Guide (STIG) images are provided for AWS, GCP, Microsoft Azure, Nutanix, and VMware by default. To learn more, see [ZPA Private Service Edge Software by Platform](/zpa/zpa-private-service-edge-software-by-platform). The remaining private and public cloud VM images provided by Zscaler are essentially unmodified operating systems (currently based on RHEL 9.x). You can patch these systems when necessary by using the standard yum OS update mechanism. Zscaler recommends that you harden the operating system, including the `sshd-config` file, on the VM images in accordance with your organization's security standards after initial deployment. To learn more, see [Managing Deployed ZPA Private Service Edges](/zpa/managing-deployed-zpa-private-service-edges#Updating).
To learn more about support for CentOS 7.x, see [End-of-Support for CentOS 7.x, RHEL 7.x, and Oracle Linux 7.x](/eos-eol/end-support-centos-7.x-rhel-7.x-and-oracle-linux-7.x).
Due to the fact that vulnerabilities are regularly found in core open-source components such as DNS resolvers and the Linux Kernel, Zscaler recommends either patching or using new Zscaler-distributed VM images on a regular basis, or protecting ZPA Private Service Edges using firewall policies. Additionally, if you've installed the ZPA Private Service Edge as a package, Zscaler recommends that you take similar precautions.
Some organizations choose to firewall or otherwise restrict outbound traffic to the internet from the data center. It is possible to deploy a ZPA Private Service Edge in such an environment as long as the ZPA Private Service Edge is able to reach all Zscaler data centers containing ZPA Public Service Edges. For firewall configuration information for your deployment, see [config.zscaler.com/private.zscaler.com/zpa](https://config.zscaler.com/private.zscaler.com/zpa) (for the private.zscaler.com cloud) or [config.zscaler.com/zpatwo.net/zpa](https://config.zscaler.com/zpatwo.net/zpa) (for the zpatwo.net cloud). To learn more, see [What Is My Cloud Name for ZPA?](/zpa/what-my-cloud-name-zpa)
Firewall Requirements and Interoperability Guidelines
All of the Zscaler data centers containing ZPA Public Service Edges must be allowed. A partial firewall configuration will result in connectivity problems for end users. Zscaler’s policy is to provide a 90-day notice for activating additional IP CIDR ranges to provide organizations with sufficient opportunity for changing control policies.
Because the service enforces TLS certificate pinning for both client and server certificates, all forms of inline or man-in-the-middle TLS interception or inspection must be disabled. ZPA Private Service Edge will not function if the TLS certificates presented by the ZPA Public Service Edges do not cryptographically verify against Zscaler-trusted public keys.
By design, certificate verification is not configurable to maintain the integrity of the service, so ensure that *.prod.zpath.net is in your SSL bypass list for traffic originating from the ZPA Private Service Edge. This is necessary for allowing the ZPA Private Service Edge to resolve and reach ZPA Public Service Edges. ZPA Private Service Edge requires your firewall configuration to accept the incoming connections from the users. Also, if you need to allowlist additional Zscaler IP addresses, refer to [config.zscaler.com/private.zscaler.com/zpa](https://config.zscaler.com/private.zscaler.com/zpa) (for the private.zscaler.com cloud) or [config.zscaler.com/zpatwo.net/zpa](https://config.zscaler.com/zpatwo.net/zpa) (for the zpatwo.net cloud). To learn more, see [What Is My Cloud Name for ZPA?](/zpa/what-my-cloud-name-zpa) It might be possible to allowlist based on Zscaler cloud hostnames instead of IP addresses.
[]ZPA Private Service Edges require that the [Zscaler Client Connector](/z-app) be at least on version 2.1.2.