# Zscaler, Okta, and CrowdStrike Deployment Guide
Source: https://help.zscaler.com/zscaler-technology-partners/zscaler-okta-and-crowdstrike-deployment-guide
PDF: https://help.zscaler.com/pdf/com/en/1475301.pdf

The Zscaler, Okta, and CrowdStrike Deployment Guide provides instructions on integrating Zscaler Internet Access (ZIA) and Zscaler Private Access (ZPA) to work together to reduce attack surface and prevent compromise.
In work from anywhere (WFA) environments, users must access apps outside the corporate network. This access must be based on Zero Trust to provide robust, secure access to all applications (SaaS and private apps). Zero Trust applies not only to identity, but also to device posture and access policy to provide application access.
In this solution, Okta Identity Cloud centralizes identity management with a context-based policy engine. Okta and CrowdStrike establish a user and device trust chain, while Okta and Zscaler automate access restriction policies. CrowdStrike Falcon Zero Trust Assessment (ZTA) provides continuous, real-time security and compliance checks for endpoint posture, making sure that the only authenticated users and compliant devices can access authorized applications at any given time. The Zero Trust Exchange service and Okta Workforce Cloud have the ability to use data derived from the Falcon ZTA score to automatically update policies as needed to secure access to private apps and internet apps based on the device posture and health scores.
[Zscaler, Okta, and CrowdStrike Deployment Guide](/downloads/zscaler-technology-partners/identity/zscaler-okta-and-crowdstrike-deployment-guide/Zscaler-Okta-CrowdStrike-Deployment-Guide-FINAL.pdf) [Download PDF](/downloads/zscaler-technology-partners/identity/zscaler-okta-and-crowdstrike-deployment-guide/Zscaler-Okta-CrowdStrike-Deployment-Guide-FINAL.pdf)