# What Is Zscaler ITDR?
Source: https://help.zscaler.com/itdr/what-zscaler-itdr
PDF: https://help.zscaler.com/pdf/com/en/1531720.pdf

Zscaler Identity Threat Detection and Response (ITDR) solution is integrated with the Zscaler Zero Trust Exchange (ZTE) platform to continuously monitor the Active Directory (AD) domain for any identity-based threats such as stolen credentials, risky permissions, or vulnerabilities, and enriches the threat signal with user-relevant information to perform an investigation. Zscaler's security team uses this information to orchestrate automated remediation. ITDR strengthens users' Zero Trust posture by identifying the threat or misconfigurations in real time, mitigating the risks, and providing step-by-step remediation to secure your identities. To learn more, see [Zscaler Identity Threat Detection & Response.](https://www.zscaler.com/products-and-solutions/zscaler-itdr)
ITDR provides an extensive view of your identity posture, vulnerable users or computers, severity categorizations of the issues, AD misconfigurations, and vulnerabilities. It also provides MITRE ATT&CK mapping that helps you locate blind spots and prioritize issue mitigation through containment and remediation.
Why ITDR?
Attackers are using sophisticated methods to target users and identities as the point of entry to escalate privileges and move laterally. With advanced attack techniques using identity compromise as the preferred route to a breach, ITDR provides a pragmatic approach to identity-first security to mitigate the risk of threats that bypass existing defenses. ITDR detects credential exploitation, identity theft, or misuse, and AD assaults and secures your identities. It offers extensive visibility into the identity attack surface to deliver real-time notifications on identity-based assaults.
ITDR and Security Operations Center (SOC) integrations strengthen investigation and response to leading Endpoint Detection and Response (EDR) and Security Information and Event Management (SIEM) solutions. ITDR telemetry is Open API-compliant.
Key Features and Benefits
ITDR includes the following features and benefits:
- Ease of deployment: Integrates with Zscaler Client Connector to unlock new capabilities and protection without the need for additional agents or virtual machines (VMs).
- Integrated with access policy: Integrates seamlessly with the Zscaler ZTE platform for better threat detection and response for identity-based threats. When an identity attack is detected, the ZTE dynamically applies access policy controls to block compromised users.
- Identity threat detection in real time: Monitors AD for threats in real time and sends alerts when configuration changes introduce risks or issues. Some of the available threat detectors include DCSync, DCShadow, Kerberoasting, session enumeration, privileged account access, LDAP enumeration, and more. The security team can use these threat detectors to identify a threat on the designated endpoint.
- Identity protection: Strengthens your Zero Trust posture by mitigating the risk of user compromise and privilege exploitation.
- Accelerate investigation and response: Prioritizes investigation on alerts based on risk scores generated by identity assessments.
- Streamline remediation: Identifies risks and provides step-by-step remediation guidance along with video tutorials, scripts, and commands to speed up response.
- Uncover misconfigurations: Discovers risky configurations such as GPP password exposure, unconstrained delegation, and stale passwords that are vulnerable for new attack paths.
- Quantify identity risk: Quantifies and tracks the posture of your identity attack surface based on risk scores to understand where, how, and why a user is at risk.
How Does ITDR Work?
ITDR takes a low-touch and operationally simple approach to identity security. It’s built into Zscaler Client Connector, a unified agent that securely brokers connections between users and applications/resources.
ITDR consists of three capabilities:
- **Identity Attack Surface Visibility**: ITDR audits the AD domains by running LDAP queries to build a map of schema, users, objects, and computers, and runs checks on these objects to identify risks and vulnerabilities that exist in your AD domain. You can assign a Zscaler Client Connector or an endpoint agent to scan an AD domain for identity misconfigurations and vulnerabilities. After the scan is complete, you can view the result on the [Identity Posture dashboard](/itdr/about-itdr-posture-active-directory-dashboard). The assessment results include a domain risk score for identity posture quantification and tracking, focus areas to prioritize remediation, a list of the riskiest users and computers, a basic analysis of severity and risk categorizations, and MITRE ATT&CK kill chain mapping for visibility into security blind spots.
- **Identity Change Detection**: After AD domains are assessed for misconfigurations and vulnerabilities, you can enable [change detection](/itdr/about-itdr-change-detection) to check new vulnerabilities and misconfigurations introduced to your identity store in near real time. The scope of these checks targets the discovery of issues that have the highest possibility of abuse by adversaries. These checks run every 15 minutes from Zscaler Client Connector installed on the endpoints or landmine agents for the given AD domain. The changes detected are marked as having a good or bad impact. A good impact indicates that the change is safe or has a good impact, and a bad impact indicates a potential issue that is introduced. Change detection identifies new changes as they emerge, allowing security teams to quickly respond and remediate them.
- **Identity Threat Detection: **ITDR has a threat detection capability that alerts SOC teams of misconfigurations and vulnerabilities in your AD domain and endpoints. Some of the available threat detectors include DCSync, DCShadow, Kerberoasting, session enumeration, privileged account access, LDAP enumeration, and more. ITDR enriches the threat signal with user-relevant information to perform an investigation. You can investigate the issues and their impact to build a strong identity hygiene with step-by-step remediation guidance in the form of video tutorials, scripts, and commands to accelerate readily available responses.