# Using Persistent State for Isolation
Source: https://help.zscaler.com/isolation/using-persistent-state-isolation
PDF: https://help.zscaler.com/pdf/com/en/1516786.pdf

The key benefit of Isolation is that it provides users with the ability to browse the internet within Chromium-based browsers that are in a sandboxed environment. The temporary format of this container is made possible by the idle timeout restriction, which causes the isolated browser to expire and close after 10 minutes of user inactivity. By default, all the data in that expired isolated browser is purged, along with all the isolated web content and the associated state. However, admins can enable a persistent state of the isolated browser. To ensure an intuitive browsing experience, isolation profiles with this feature enabled have sessions restored automatically upon user access.
To allow users to access this feature, admins must enable the Persistent State setting on the user's isolation profile. To learn more, see [Creating Isolation Profiles for ZIA](/isolation/creating-isolation-profiles-zia) and [Creating Isolation Profiles for ZPA](/isolation/creating-isolation-profiles-zpa).
To use Persistent State, the user can click the restore button to refresh the URL and restart the isolated session. Beginning a brand-new isolation session restores the authentication state and user's browsing history, unless this feature has been disabled during the time between the old and new sessions.
The persisting session information is backed up in an encrypted state to the Zscaler cloud. If the session with the persisting data is not restored again for 15 days, the data is purged permanently. As soon as you disable Persistent State for your user, their persisting session data is also purged. Persistent session data cannot exceed 100 MB.
If a user attempts to restore a session three or more times without success, or the restored browser does not load, have them contact their Isolation admin.