# Zero Trust Branch Connectivity with Zscaler Branch Connector
Source: https://help.zscaler.com/cloud-branch-connector/zero-trust-branch-connectivity-zscaler-branch-connector
PDF: https://help.zscaler.com/pdf/com/en/1514256.pdf

The Zscaler Reference Architecture series delivers best practices based on real-world deployments. The recommendations in this series were developed by Zscaler's transformation experts from across the company. This guide will steer you through the architecture process and provide technical deep dives into specific platform functionality and integrations. The Zscaler Reference Architecture series is designed to be modular, so this guide will show you how to configure a different aspect of the platform in order to allow you meet your specific policy goals.
Zscaler Branch Connector takes a different approach to the SD-WAN model. It starts with a Zero Trust approach to the branch office, using the Secure Access Service Edge (SASE) model. Leveraging both Zscaler Internet Access (ZIA) and Zscaler Private Access (ZPA), users gain access to applications, not networks. Designed to be deployed anywhere, from small branches to large campuses and data centers, Zscaler Branch Connector simplifies connecting your devices with the Zscaler cloud, the Zero Trust Exchange (ZTE).
[Zero Trust Branch Connectivity with Zscaler Branch Connector](/downloads/cloud-branch-connector/reference-architecture/zero-trust-branch-connectivity-zscaler-branch-connector/Zero-Trust-Branch-Connectivity-with-Zscaler-Branch-Connector.pdf) [Download PDF](/downloads/cloud-branch-connector/reference-architecture/zero-trust-branch-connectivity-zscaler-branch-connector/Zero-Trust-Branch-Connectivity-with-Zscaler-Branch-Connector.pdf)