# Managing Cloud & Branch Connector Upgrades
Source: https://help.zscaler.com/cloud-branch-connector/managing-cloud-branch-connector-upgrades
PDF: https://help.zscaler.com/pdf/com/en/1446991.pdf

[Watch a video about Cloud & Branch Connector Upgrades.](https://fast.wistia.net/embed/iframe/i91vzo6kqu)
When Cloud or Branch Connectors are deployed, the software is upgraded to the latest version. The upgrade patch can include OS upgrades and Zscaler software upgrades. OS upgrades do not happen in the same way other packages do. After the latest images are posted in the public cloud for Cloud Connector, you must create new deployments for the OS upgrade. The public cloud for Cloud Connector is hosted in the Zscaler Cloud & Branch Connector Admin Portal for download for Branch Connector virtual machines (VMs). The devices are reprovisioned with the latest images.
Periodic Upgrades
Cloud and Branch Connectors check for new software versions every week, and if one is available, they upgrade automatically. By default, the upgrade window starts every Sunday at midnight (local time of deployed Cloud or Branch Connector). All connectors in the [Cloud Connector group](/cloud-branch-connector/about-cloud-connector-groups) or Branch Connector group on the [Virtual Branch Devices](/cloud-branch-connector/about-virtual-branch-devices) and [Physical Branch Devices](/cloud-branch-connector/about-physical-branch-devices) pages are updated within a two-hour window. Upgrades for connectors within the Cloud Connector group or Branch Connector group on the [Virtual Branch Devices](/cloud-branch-connector/about-virtual-branch-devices) and [Physical Branch Devices](/cloud-branch-connector/about-physical-branch-devices) pages are staggered to prevent service impact. For information on updating the upgrade schedule, see [Editing Cloud Connectors](/cloud-branch-connector/editing-cloud-connectors), [Editing Virtual Branch Devices](/cloud-branch-connector/editing-virtual-branch-devices), and [Editing Physical Branch Devices](/cloud-branch-connector/editing-physical-branch-devices).