# Zero Trust Security for Azure Workloads with Zscaler Cloud Connector
Source: https://help.zscaler.com/cloud-branch-connector/zero-trust-security-azure-workloads-zscaler-cloud-connector
PDF: https://help.zscaler.com/pdf/com/en/1420866.pdf

The Zscaler Reference Architecture series delivers best practices based on real-world deployments. The recommendations in this series were developed by Zscaler's transformation experts from across the company. This guide will steer you through the architecture process and provide technical deep dives into specific platform functionality and integrations. The Zscaler Reference Architecture series is designed to be modular, so this guide will show you how to configure a different aspect of the platform in order to allow you meet your specific policy goals.
Zscaler Cloud Connector ensures that cloud workloads adhere to organizational security policy when accessing both public and private endpoints. This is achieved by intelligently forwarding traffic to the Zscaler Internet Access (ZIA) and Zscaler Private Access (ZPA) platforms. Cloud Connector also enables multi-cloud connectivity and enforces a security policy for cloud-to-cloud traffic. Cloud Connector is delivered in several form factors. It is available as a virtual appliance in both Amazon Web Services (AWS) and Microsoft Azure, as well as VMs for on-premises deployment. This guide walks you through the Azure deployment. To learn more about the AWS deployment, see [Zero Trust Security for AWS Workloads with Zscaler Cloud Connector](/cloud-branch-connector/zero-trust-security-aws-workloads-zscaler-cloud-connector).
[Download English PDF](/downloads/cloud-branch-connector/reference-architecture/zero-trust-security-azure-workloads-zscaler-cloud-connector/Zero-Trust-Security-for-Azure-Workloads-with-Zscaler-Cloud-Connector.pdf)
[Download Japanese PDF](/downloads/cloud-branch-connector/reference-architecture/zero-trust-security-azure-workloads-zscaler-cloud-connector/Zero-Trust-Security-Azure-Zscaler-v20230715_ja-JP.pdf)