# Understanding Zscaler-Managed Dedicated IP
Source: https://help.zscaler.com/zia/understanding-zscaler-managed-dedicated-ip
PDF: https://help.zscaler.com/pdf/com/en/1468221.pdf

Zscaler's customers often access destinations that require traffic to egress from a specific IP address that is unique to the organization for authentication. However, when the traffic is forwarded through Zscaler, the client IP address reaching the destination is replaced with a Zscaler IP address, which leads to the traffic being blocked. In such scenarios, organizations might have to risk bypassing some traffic from the Zscaler service, creating a security gap.
To avoid bypassing security checks, Zscaler offers a cloud-based service that allows organizations to be provisioned with dedicated IP addresses and use them as the source IP addresses for their traffic. This enables your users to access SaaS applications or domains that restrict access based on the source IP address of the traffic. To learn more about the use cases, see [Using Dedicated IP](/zia/using-dedicated-ip).
To enable dedicated IP addresses for your tenant, follow these steps:
- Contact your Zscaler Account team to enable the Dedicated IP feature for your ZIA tenant.
- Provide a list of Zscaler data centers where dedicated IP addresses are needed.
- Zscaler provisions dedicated IP addresses for selected Zscaler data centers in the ZIA Admin Portal. An organization is assigned two IP addresses for each data center they are subscribed to. It is possible to increase the number of IP addresses to be allocated at each data center based on your entitlement.
- After provisioning, you can [configure dedicated IP gateways](/zia/configuring-dedicated-ip-gateways). These dedicated IP gateways are used to forward traffic through the assigned dedicated source IP address.
- [Configure dedicated IP forwarding policies](/zia/configuring-forwarding-policy#dedicated-Ip) and specify all the criteria to be met for forwarding the traffic. Choose the appropriate dedicated IP gateway configured in Step 4 to forward traffic using your dedicated egress source IP addresses.
You can view the IP addresses provisioned for your organization on the Dedicated IP > IP Addresses page in the ZIA Admin Portal. Configure granular [forwarding policies](/zia/configuring-forwarding-policy) in the ZIA Admin Portal to forward traffic using the dedicated IP addresses. Zscaler ensures the traffic is secure and that the source IP address is a dedicated IP address assigned to you.