# About Privileged Policy
Source: https://help.zscaler.com/unified/about-privileged-policy
PDF: https://help.zscaler.com/pdf/com/en/1493866.pdf

The Privileged Policy tab includes pages Privileged Remote Access-specific features. The Privileged Capabilities Policy and Privileged Credentials Policy pages are displayed if your account has these features enabled, otherwise if you only have one of the features, you cannot see the other page. If neither of the features are enabled, the Privileged Policy tab is not shown.
The Privileged Capabilities Policy page contains the File Transfer feature. You can configure a privileged capabilities policy rule to designated privileged consoles, which allows them to inspect, upload, or download files. When this policy rule is set, you can use the allotted functions for that privileged console. To learn more, see [About Privileged Capabilities Policy](/unified/about-privileged-capabilities-policy) and [Configuring Privileged Capabilities Policies](/unified/configuring-privileged-capabilities-policies).
The Privileged Credentials Policy page contains the Credential Mapping feature. You can configure a privileged credentials policy rule to designated privileged consoles, which allows credentials to be provided for those specified privileged consoles. When this policy rule is set, you can enable the privileged credential mapping settings. To learn more, see [About Privileged Credentials Policy](/unified/about-privileged-credentials-policy) and [Configuring Privileged Credentials Policies](/unified/configuring-privileged-credentials-policies).