# Implementing Zscaler in No Default Route Environments
Source: https://help.zscaler.com/unified/implementing-zscaler-no-default-route-environments
PDF: https://help.zscaler.com/pdf/com/en/1495286.pdf

Some organizations use a no-default route architecture in their network, which means that although an individual client machine might have a default route configured, the edge router does not automatically forward all traffic upstream through the default route. Instead, it allows only specific devices to access the internet through static routes. In this architecture, web browser traffic is explicitly sent to a proxy using a PAC file that is served through a local web server, through the proxy itself, or through the use of Microsoft's Web Proxy Automatic Discovery (WPAD).
The advent of application proxy software and appliances enabled no-default route architecture, where application proxies can provide deep visibility and control for protocols such as HTTP and HTTPS, and firewall rules can be kept simple. In addition, many other protocols that require access to the internet can also be proxied similarly, including Simple Mail Transfer Protocol (SMTP), DNS, and FTP.
Organizations often consider the no-default route architecture a more secure option. However, it developed when cloud services did not exist, network traffic typically backhauled to a few egress points, users weren't mobile, and threats were more easily understood. Using this legacy architecture now leads to compromises.
Companies are moving away from Multiprotocol Label Switching (MPLS) and toward low-cost local access for internet offloading. In this context, maintaining a no-default route architecture requires a considerable cost to replicate appliances at each location. Additionally, mobile users must enforce an always-on virtual private network (VPN), which adds to latency and poor user experience, and allows users to access the internet unprotected when they are outside the organization's network. This is where Zscaler can provide additional value when used with no-default architecture.
Challenges: Using Zscaler in No-Default Route Environment
When using a cloud-based secure web gateway such as Zscaler in combination with a no-default route architecture, there are certain requirements to consider for fetching PAC files from the cloud, forwarding traffic to cloud-hosted Public Service Edges, and protecting users when they are on and off the corporate network.
A no-default route architecture relies on explicit proxy web traffic, either through the use of a PAC file or by hard-coding the proxy to use. A web browser fetches PAC files over port 80, and Zscaler publishes the PAC IP addresses for a cloud as part of the Zscaler Hub IP address range. You can use the IP address range to define static routes and firewall rules to allow access to the PAC files, including the proxy port. To learn more about Zscaler IP address ranges, go to (config.zscaler.com/<Zscaler Cloud Name>/hubs).
Alternatively, you can serve PAC files locally, but additional configurations are required to provide dynamic failover and protect users when they are outside the corporate network. When the browser fetches PAC files from the Zscaler PAC file servers, it uses special variables in the PAC file in place of the primary and secondary proxy IP addresses. In addition, the nearest Zscaler data center virtual IP addresses (VIP) are substituted for the user's source IP addresses so that they are dynamically directed to the nearest available Zscaler data center. If you are serving the PAC file locally, verify that the Zscaler data centers used are available. In addition, if the intent is to also protect the user when outside the corporate network, which is highly recommended, then the path to the PAC file should resolve to the internal PAC file when they are inside the corporate network, and the Zscaler PAC file server when outside the corporate network.
The following sections describe your options when using Zscaler in a no-default route environment:
- [Pure PAC File Option](#pure-pac-file-option)
- [PAC File and Tunnel Option](#pac-file-tunnel-option)
[]The pure PAC file options are:
- [Internal PAC file only](#internal-pac-file-only)
- [Internal and external PAC file](#internal-external-pac-file)
- []Serve PAC files via WPAD when the user is internal. PAC file access fails when the user is external.
- Serve PAC file from an internal web server. PAC file access fails when the user is external.
- Configure access to specific Zscaler data center ranges using static routes.
- Zscaler does not recommend the internal PAC file only option for remote users because they are unprotected when using it.
- The [Zscaler SLA](https://www.zscaler.com/productsheets) does not apply in this scenario because dynamic failover is not possible if proxy addresses are hard-coded. Additionally, data center address ranges are subject to change.
- []When the user is internal, configure a path to the Zscaler PAC file and translate it to an internal PAC file. This option requires using internal DNS to spoof the Zscaler domain, or an intermediate device to rewrite the requested URL.
- When the user is internal, configure a path to the Zscaler PAC file and allow access to Zscaler PAC file server addresses.
- Configure access to specific Zscaler data center ranges using static routes.
The [Zscaler SLA](https://www.zscaler.com/productsheets) does not apply in this scenario because dynamic failover is not possible if proxy addresses are hard-coded for the internally served PAC file. Additionally, data center address ranges are subject to change.
[]In the Zscaler architecture, an Internet & SaaS Public Service Edge processes traffic that is destined for any Internet & SaaS Service Edge in the cloud. This architecture is useful when sending explicitly forwarded traffic through a tunnel because the tunnel termination point terminates the traffic even if it is destined for another data center.
- PAC files can point to an internal IP address that is then destination NATed to a Zscaler data center and forwarded over the configured Generic Routing Encapsulation (GRE) or IPSec tunnels.
- PAC files can be hard-coded with a specific Global Internet & SaaS Public Service Edge IP address that can be forwarded through the tunnel through policy-based routing (PBR).
Zscaler has configured several [Global Internet & SaaS Public Service Edges](/unified/about-global-internet-saas-public-service-edges) across its clouds. These Internet & SaaS Public Service Edge IP addresses are dummy IP addresses. Every Internet & SaaS Public Service Edge is aware of them and terminates the destined traffic.
The [Zscaler SLA](https://www.zscaler.com/productsheets) does apply in this scenario because dynamic failover is not available through the use of the tunnels.
Use Cases
- Servers that cannot use PAC files can use special DNS names such as `gateway.zscalertwo.net` and `secondary.gateway.zscalertwo.net`. Using these names provides some level of high availability because they resolve to available data centers based on the source IP address of the DNS resolver. You should also define static routes to allow access to the Zscaler data center ranges.
The [Zscaler SLA](https://www.zscaler.com/productsheets) does not apply in this scenario because there are known issues with Microsoft caching the DNS responses in violation of the Time to Live (TTL) returned. However, the [Zscaler SLA](https://www.zscaler.com/productsheets) can be acceptable for server traffic.
- Other protocols, such as SOCKS, which have traditionally been used in no-default route architectures to send non-proxy-aware protocols via a proxy, should be handled differently. In many cases, those protocols can be sent directly to the internet or configured to use a standard proxy.
The trend toward cloud-based services, internet offloading, and protection for mobile users has led some companies toward network transformation. For organizations that choose to still embrace the no-default route architecture, it is still possible to use Zscaler with some minor adjustments, either as a long-term solution or an intermediate one before network transformation.