# Private Service Edge Deployment Prerequisites for Private Applications
Source: https://help.zscaler.com/unified/private-service-edge-deployment-prerequisites
PDF: https://help.zscaler.com/pdf/com/en/1496731.pdf

Before deploying a Private Service Edge on any supported platform, Zscaler highly recommends reading the following information and making the necessary changes to your organization's environment, where applicable.
Each Private Service Edge supports up to 500 Mbps of throughput. Use the information on this page to determine the Private Service Edge sizing requirements for your deployment. For example, with a 1 Gbps aggregate (i.e., total inbound and outbound) connection, you would need to deploy 2 to 3 Private Service Edges.
- [Private Service Edge Specifications and Sizing Requirements](#SpecsSizing)
- [Private Service Edge Platform Prerequisites](#PlatformPrereqs)
- [Private Service Edge Security Guidance and Firewall Requirements](#Firewall)
- [Private Service Edge Zscaler Client Connector Requirements](#ClientConnector)
After you have met all of the prerequisites, you can deploy the Private Service Edge on a supported platform.
[]The following specifications are recommended by Zscaler for up to 500 Mbps throughput for each Private Service Edge.
- Memory (RAM) and vCPU (for virtual machines) or CPU (for physical machines) cores:
| Active Users | Memory | vCPU or CPU Cores |
| ------------ | ------ | ----------------- |
| Up to 2,000 | 8 GB (10 GB with ZDX) | 4 vCPUs or 4 CPUs |
| Up to 4,000 | 16 GB (18 GB with ZDX) | 8 vCPUs or 8 CPUs |
| Up to 10,000 | 32 GB (34 GB with ZDX) | 16 vCPUs or 16 CPUs |
To learn more, see the [Private Service Edge Deployment Guide](/unified/networking/private-applications/private-service-edge-management/private-service-edge-deployment-guides-supported-platforms) for your platform.
- Disk Space: 64 GB (thin provisioned) for all deployment platforms
- Network Card: 1 NIC (minimum)
Depending on your deployment use case, each Private Service Edge must be able to accept incoming connections from either internal or external sources or both internal and external sources on TCP port 443. For example, if you enable for both remote and office users, each Private Service Edge needs to accept incoming connections from both internal and external endpoints running Zscaler Client Connector.
Private Service Edges are reachable over the internet for remote users in a disaster recovery scenario, or when the Private Service Edge is the closest Service Edge.
In the scenario where a Private Service Edge is deployed behind a firewall, the firewall performs destination network address translation (DNAT) for the Private Service Edge's private IP address. In this case, the flow of traffic is from Zscaler Client Connector to the Private Service Edge. The firewall then translates the destination public IP address that Zscaler Client Connector connects to on the private IP address of the Private Service Edge. The firewall advertises a public IP address on the internet. It is necessary to configure the public IP address advertised by the firewall as a [publish IP](/unified/about-private-service-edges-private-applications) of the respective Private Service Edge. In the case of disaster recovery, you must add this IP address as the A record for that Private Service Edge.
Your firewalls must be configured to let the Private Service Edge establish outbound connections to the IP addresses of the Public Service Edge, and establish inbound connections from App Connectors and Zscaler Client Connectors.
The following conditions apply to each Private Service Edge that is placed behind a firewall:
- They must accept incoming connections from internal sources and remote users and on-premises users (as applicable and dependent on your use case) on TCP port 443.
- They must have a unique private IP address that can be reached over the internal network.
After a Private Service Edge is enrolled, an outbound TLS tunnel over TCP port 443 is established to the cloud infrastructure. This communication channel provides various functionality and includes the following traffic:
- Periodic keepalives to the Public Service Edge
- Policy configuration download
- Private Service Edge software upgrades (upgrades are completed based on a weekly schedule)
You can deploy additional Private Service Edges at any time, using the same provisioning key to add them to the existing Private Service Edge group, while ensuring network and internet connectivity. Private Service Edges are designed to scale elastically. You can deploy additional Private Service Edges in the same Private Service Edge group to increase the total throughput as required by your deployment. Zscaler recommends that you deploy Private Service Edges in pairs (N+1), where N is the number of Private Service Edges as per the sizing requirements. To learn more, see [About Deploying Private Service Edges](/unified/about-deploying-private-service-edges-private-applications) and [Supported Platforms for Private Service Edges](/unified/networking/private-applications/private-service-edge-management/private-service-edge-deployment-guides-supported-platforms).
After deployment, ensure that the Private Service Edge meets your sizing requirements. To learn more, see [Verify Private Service Edge Sizing Specifications](/unified/managing-deployed-private-service-edges-private-applications). If disk space fills up in the Private Service Edge, Zscaler recommends archiving files and creating more log space. To learn more, see [Monitoring Private Service Edge Performance](/unified/monitoring-private-service-edge-performance#diskspace_archive).
Understanding Private Service Edge Throughput
Throughput numbers are aggregate (i.e., total inbound and outbound). Each Private Service Edge supports up to 500 Mbps throughput. Private Service Edges communicate over the provided (default) gateway, which is most likely your ISP WAN broadband connection.
Zscaler recommends that you check your existing VPN solution's average and peak throughput when determining your sizing requirements. Be sure to only account for user or client VPN traffic and not any site-to-site tunnel traffic.
For example, if you have a 1 Gbps aggregate (i.e., total inbound and outbound) connection in your data center, you can use the 500 Mbps throughput guideline to make sure you have enough Private Service Edges to support the connection and have room for failover (N+1). In this case, you would need to deploy 2 to 3 Private Service Edges to support the 1 Gbps connection.
The exact throughput can vary and depends on other network factors such as your internal network setup, latency, and whether you have double encryption, AppProtection, or ZDX enabled. Make sure that you have enough Private Service Edges to support the connection and room for failover (N+1).
To horizontally scale your deployment, Zscaler recommends that you have more Private Service Edges with lower specifications rather than fewer Private Service Edges with higher specifications. For example, if you have fewer Private Service Edges with higher specifications and one fails, you could adversely affect more user application traffic or sessions than a smaller Private Service Edge that fails.
[]Before you begin any procedures within the [Private Service Edge Deployment Guide](/unified/networking/private-applications/private-service-edge-management/private-service-edge-deployment-guides-supported-platforms) for your platform, make sure that you have met all of the following prerequisites:
- Intel x86_64/AMD64 based architecture
- systemd
- Root or sudo access to the system in order to configure a new package repository and install packages
- DNS resolution and network access
- A [Private Service Edge provisioning key](/unified/about-private-service-edge-provisioning-keys-private-applications)
- A static MAC address
[]Private Service Edges can be deployed in different ways (as private cloud VMs, public cloud VMs, or OS packages), so the security features for each deployment type are slightly different.
Operating System Security
The Private Service Edge VMs distributed by Zscaler for use in private clouds are configured without any remotely accessible services running. Swap partitions are disabled on the Private Service Edge and its VMs to ensure that memory growths do not have an impact on the Private Service Edge performance. For enhanced security, you must use the `passwd` command to change the credentials on the default admin account. To learn more, see the [Private Service Edge Deployment Guides](/unified/networking/private-applications/private-service-edge-management/private-service-edge-deployment-guides-supported-platforms) for the platform you are using.
Private and public cloud VM images provided by Zscaler are essentially unmodified operating systems (currently based on CentOS 7.x). You can patch these systems when necessary by using the standard yum OS update mechanism. To learn more, see [Managing Deployed Private Service Edges](/unified/managing-deployed-private-service-edges-private-applications).
Due to the fact that vulnerabilities are regularly found in core open-source components such as DNS resolvers and the Linux Kernel, Zscaler recommends either patching or using new Zscaler-distributed VM images on a regular basis, or protecting Private Service Edges using firewall policies. Additionally, if you've installed the Private Service Edge as a package, Zscaler recommends that you take similar precautions.
Some organizations choose to firewall or otherwise restrict outbound traffic to the internet from the data center. It is possible to deploy a Private Service Edge in such an environment as long as the Private Service Edge is able to reach all Zscaler data centers containing Public Service Edges. For firewall configuration information for your deployment, see [config.zscaler.com/private.zscaler.com/zpa](https://config.zscaler.com/private.zscaler.com/zpa) (for the private.zscaler.com cloud) or [config.zscaler.com/zpatwo.net/zpa](https://config.zscaler.com/zpatwo.net/zpa) (for the zpatwo.net cloud).
Firewall Requirements and Interoperability Guidelines
All of the Zscaler data centers containing Public Service Edges must be allowed. A partial firewall configuration will result in connectivity problems for end users. Zscaler’s policy is to provide a 90 day notice for activating additional IP CIDR ranges, in order to provide organizations with sufficient opportunity for changing control policies.
Because the service enforces TLS certificate pinning for both client and server certificates, all forms of inline or man-in-the-middle TLS interception or inspection must be disabled. Private Service Edge will not function if the TLS certificates presented by the Public Service Edges do not cryptographically verify against Zscaler-trusted public keys.
By design, certificate verification is not configurable in order to maintain the integrity of the service, so ensure that *.prod.zpath.net is in your SSL bypass list for traffic originating from the Private Service Edge. This is necessary for allowing the Private Service Edge to resolve and reach Public Service Edges. Private Service Edge requires your firewall configuration to accept the incoming connections from the users. Also, if you need to allowlist additional Zscaler IP addresses, refer to [config.zscaler.com/private.zscaler.com/zpa](https://config.zscaler.com/private.zscaler.com/zpa) (for the private.zscaler.com cloud) or [config.zscaler.com/zpatwo.net/zpa](https://config.zscaler.com/zpatwo.net/zpa) (for the zpatwo.net cloud). It may be possible to allowlist based on Zscaler cloud hostnames instead of IP addresses.
[]Private Service Edges require that the [Zscaler Client Connector](/z-app) be at least on version 2.1.2.