# Step-by-Step Configuration Guide for Webex Teams Real-Time DLP
Source: https://help.zscaler.com/unified/step-step-configuration-guide-webex-teams-real-time-dlp
PDF: https://help.zscaler.com/pdf/com/en/1525431.pdf

[]This guide takes you through the configuration steps you need to complete to begin using the Zscaler real-time Data Loss Prevention (DLP) for your organization. Because Zscaler real-time DLP uses Zscaler DLP tools to monitor and prevent the leakage of sensitive data in Webex Teams messages and files, Zscaler recommends reading the following articles before you begin configuring your real-time DLP policy.
- [About Data Loss Prevention](/unified/about-data-loss-prevention)
- [About DLP Dictionaries](/unified/about-dlp-dictionaries)
- [Understanding Predefined DLP Dictionaries](/unified/understanding-predefined-dlp-dictionaries)
- [About DLP Engines](/unified/about-dlp-engines)
- [About Zscaler Incident Receiver](/unified/about-zscaler-incident-receiver)
- [What Is Workflow Automation?](/workflow-automation/what-workflow-automation)
Configuring Zscaler Real-Time DLP
To configure Zscaler Real-time DLP, complete the following steps:
- [Step 1: Complete Prerequisite Tasks](#prerequisites)
- [Step 2: Configure Company Profile](#configure-domains)
- [Step 3: Add Webex Teams as a SaaS Application Tenant](#add-saas-tenants)
- [Step 4: Configure DLP Policy Rules](#configure-dlp-rules)
- [Step 5: Configure Scan Configuration](#scan-config)
- [(Optional) Step 6: Use Zscaler Workflow Automation to Manage and Resolve Incidents](#configure-zwa)
- [(Optional) Step 7: Configure NSS Feeds](#configure-nss-feeds)
- [Step 8: Monitor Activity with Dashboards and Reports](#monitor-dashboards-reports)
[]Ensure that Internet & SaaS is fully configured for your organization.
[]Ensure that your company details are set up in your Company Profile. To learn more, see [Configuring the Company Profile](/unified/configuring-company-profile).
[]Adding Webex Teams as a SaaS application tenant is the first step in setting up your real-time DLP policy. You can use the tenant you create to configure your real-time DLP policy that protects your organization from data loss by monitoring and taking action on sensitive data that end users include in their Webex Teams messages and the files users might attach to those messages. Adding Webex Teams as a SaaS application tenant allows the Zscaler service to act as a smart host where Webex Teams can send messages and files for content inspection.
To learn more, see [Adding SaaS Application Tenants](/unified/adding-saas-application-tenants).
[]You can use Zscaler's DLP engines to detect data and allow or block messages and files. If you don't use Zscaler DLP engines, the service functions instead as a filter, only flagging content based on specific criteria.
The Data at Rest Scanning DLP policy allows you to create rules to discover and protect sensitive data at rest in sanctioned SaaS applications. Webex Teams messages are managed by configuring web DLP policies, while file attachments are managed by configuring the Data at Rest Scanning DLP policies.
To learn more, see [Configuring DLP Policy Rules with Content Inspections](/unified/configuring-dlp-policy-rules-content-inspection) and [Configuring the Data at Rest Scanning DLP Policy](/unified/configuring-data-rest-scanning-dlp-policy).
[]In order for the Data at Rest Scanning DLP policies to inspect content in sanctioned SaaS applications, you must create SaaS Security scan schedules.
To learn more, see [About SaaS Security Scan Configuration](/unified/about-saas-security-scan-configuration).
[]If you configured an Incident Receiver as part of your real-time DLP policy rules, you can integrate it with Workflow Automation to capture and remediate incidents generated by policy violations.
To learn more, see [About Incidents](/workflow-automation/what-workflow-automation).
[]You can configure Nanolog Streaming Service (NSS) feeds to specify the data from the Zscaler real-time DLP policy logs that the NSS sends to your security information and event management (SIEM) system.
To learn more, see [About NSS Feeds](/unified/about-nss-feeds).
[]You can use Zscaler Insights and SaaS Security Insights Logs and reports to gain visibility and insight into your organization's messaging activity. You can view the logs for messages that triggered the inline DLP rules in the Web Insights Logs for Webex and you can view the logs for files that triggered the real-time SaaS Security DLP rules in the SaaS Security Insights Logs page for Webex.
To learn more, see [About Insights Logs](/unified/about-insights-logs) and [About SaaS Security Insights Logs](/unified/about-saas-security-insights-logs).