# Understanding Zscaler-Managed Dedicated IP
Source: https://help.zscaler.com/unified/understanding-zscaler-managed-dedicated-ip
PDF: https://help.zscaler.com/pdf/com/en/1497716.pdf

Zscaler's customers often access destinations that require traffic to egress from a specific IP address that is unique to the organization for authentication. However, when the traffic is forwarded through Zscaler, the client IP address reaching the destination is replaced with a Zscaler IP address, which leads to the traffic being blocked. In such scenarios, organizations might have to risk bypassing some traffic from the Zscaler service, creating a security gap.
To avoid bypassing security checks, Zscaler offers a cloud-based service that allows organizations to be provisioned with dedicated IP addresses and use them as their source IP address for applications that require source IP-based access. This enables the users to send and receive traffic from specific SaaS applications or domains that restrict access based on the source IP address of the traffic. The organization is assigned a minimum of two IP addresses for each data center they are subscribed to. To learn more about the use cases, see [Using Dedicated IP](/unified/using-dedicated-ip).
The following steps are the primary process of using a dedicated IP address to forward traffic:
- Contact your Zscaler Account team to enable the Dedicated IP feature for your Internet & SaaS tenant.
- Provide a list of Zscaler data centers where a dedicated IP address is needed.
- Zscaler provisions dedicated IP addresses for selected Zscaler data centers in the Admin Portal.
- After provisioning, configure dedicated IP gateways to forward traffic through the assigned dedicated source IP address.
- Configure dedicated IP forwarding polices and specify all the criteria to be met before forwarding the traffic. Choose the appropriate dedicated IP gateway to forward traffic to a dedicated egress IP address.
Zscaler-managed dedicated IP uses [forwarding policies](/unified/about-forwarding-control) to steer traffic processed by Internet & SaaS to the external destination servers, ensuring that Zscaler secures the traffic and that the source IP address is a dedicated IP assigned to the customer by Zscaler. These dedicated source IP addresses are hosted and provisioned by Zscaler for your organization.
The configuration and workflow for Zscaler-managed Dedicated IP are similar to the [customer-managed Dedicated IP](/unified/understanding-source-ip-anchoring) (or Source IP Anchoring) solution. You can configure granular policies in the Admin Portal to forward traffic using the dedicated IP addresses to destinations that require the organization's preregistered unique IP address for access. You can view the IP addresses provisioned for your organization on the Infrastructure > Internet & SaaS > Network Policies >  Dedicated IP > IP Addresses page in the Admin Portal. To learn more about Dedicated IP, see [Using Dedicated IP](/unified/using-dedicated-ip).