# Using Dedicated IP
Source: https://help.zscaler.com/unified/using-dedicated-ip
PDF: https://help.zscaler.com/pdf/com/en/1497686.pdf

When organizations forward their network traffic to the Zscaler cloud, the IP address of the client devices is automatically translated (via Network Address Translation) into a Zscaler-managed IP address from a common pool due to the proxy architecture of Zscaler, before the traffic is forwarded to the destination. Although masking client devices' IP addresses behind Zscaler's IP addresses serves as one of the core tenets of Zero Trust Network Architecture (ZTNA), organizations in the enterprise landscape sometimes need to use their own IP addresses to authenticate and access certain resources.
For example, third-party SaaS applications and domains might use the source IP address of the traffic they receive as a filtering mechanism and restrict access based on the source IP address of the traffic. These applications require the traffic to originate from a preregistered unique IP address, which usually belongs to the organization. These applications deny access to user traffic that originates from other IP addresses within or outside the organization, such as the Zscaler data center's IP address that is not preregistered with the service.
In some cases, applications allow access only if the traffic originates from specific countries where Zscaler's data center might not be present. For example, some government sites hosted in a country might be accessible only from within that country, and if Zscaler does not have a data center within that country, the users of that country would not have access to those government sites.
In such scenarios, organizations might have to risk bypassing some traffic from the Zscaler service, creating a security gap. To overcome this issue, organizations can use Geo IP [forwarding policies](/unified/about-forwarding-control) to forward traffic using IP addresses mapped to the location of the originating request. Organizations can also use [Private Service Edges](/unified/understanding-internet-saas-private-service-edge) or [Virtual Service Edges](/unified/about-internet-saas-virtual-service-edges) to minimize security risk.
In some scenarios, organizations prefer a cloud-delivered service that provides a dedicated IP address for their exclusive use. In such cases where the IP address of the source must be fixed and unique for an organization, Zscaler allows you to control the source IP address of the traffic forwarded to the destination servers without bypassing the Zscaler service. These dedicated source IP addresses can either be self-managed, or they can be provisioned by Zscaler for your organization.
Source IP-based authentication to access resources increases the risk of exploitation by malicious actors, so Zscaler recommends using Dedicated IP only for applications that mandate IP-based authentication.
Zscaler provides the following two offerings for organizations to use dedicated source IP addresses:
Customer-Managed Dedicated IP (or Source IP Anchoring)
Organizations host the infrastructure necessary for Source IP Anchoring on their premises and own the IP addresses from which their traffic has to egress. You can create policies to route the traffic from Internet & SaaS towards the Private Applications' [App Connectors](/unified/about-app-connectors) hosted at your organization's premises, which act as the egress point for traffic towards the destination. The destination application or domain recognizes the IP address of the App Connector as the source IP address of the traffic and allows access to resources. To learn more, see [Understanding Source IP Anchoring](/unified/understanding-source-ip-anchoring).
The Source IP Anchoring feature is not supported with Virtual Service Edges.
Zscaler-Managed Dedicated IP
Zscaler offers a cloud-based service that allows organizations to be provisioned with dedicated IP addresses based on location and use them as their source IP address for applications that require IP-based authentication. With the dedicated IP feature, organizations can create dedicated IP gateways using the provisioned IP addresses from which the traffic egresses the Zscaler cloud to destinations that restrict access based on the source IP address. To learn more, see [Understanding Zscaler-Managed Dedicated IP](/unified/understanding-zscaler-managed-dedicated-ip).
Zscaler-managed dedicated IP uses [forwarding policies](/unified/about-forwarding-control) to steer selective traffic processed by Internet & SaaS to the external destination servers, ensuring that Zscaler secures the traffic and that the source IP address is a dedicated IP assigned to the customer by Zscaler.
To enable the Dedicated IP feature, contact your Zscaler Account team. After the feature is enabled, you can view the IP addresses provisioned for your organization on the Infrastructure > Internet & SaaS > Network Policies > Dedicated IP > IP Addresses page in the Admin Portal.