# Understanding Workflows in Workflow Automation
Source: https://help.zscaler.com/workflow-automation/understanding-workflows-workflow-automation
PDF: https://help.zscaler.com/pdf/com/en/1455976.pdf

Workflow Automation enables admins to view and remediate data protection incidents that have occurred in their organization. To remediate incidents, admins can:
- Manually perform different actions (e.g., investigate, notify user, escalate, create ticket, and close incident) for one or more incidents using the Incidents page and Incident Details page in Workflow Automation. To learn more, see [Managing Incidents](/workflow-automation/managing-incidents) and [Viewing & Managing Incident Details.](/workflow-automation/viewing-managing-incident-details)
- Configure predefined and custom workflows that automatically perform the different actions (e.g., notify user, escalate, create ticket, and close incident) for one or more incidents. To learn more, see [Managing Workflow Templates](/zia/managing-workflow-templates), [Managing Workflows](/zia/managing-workflows), and [Managing Workflow Mappings](/zia/managing-workflow-mappings).
Admins can use one or both of these methods to remediate the incidents. Depending on the number and type of incidents that occur in your organization, one method might be preferred more than the other.
The users, managers, and approvers respond to the actions (e.g., notify user and escalate) generated by a workflow in the same way as if those actions were manually performed by an admin on the Incidents page or Incident Details page.
Workflow Configuration
You can configure predefined workflows and custom workflows in Workflow Automation. When you configure a predefined workflow, you must select a workflow template on which to base the workflow and also enter the details for the workflow steps within that particular workflow template. Depending on the workflow template, there might be one or more steps and different details required for each step, such as notification channel and time to wait for user response. Workflow Automation provides the following workflow templates that you can use:
- **Auto Close Data Protection Incident With Resolution Label**: This template automatically sets the status of the incident as Resolved and adds a resolution label for the closure.
- **Auto Close Data Protection Incident**: This template automatically sets the status of the incident as Resolved.
- **Auto Create Tickets**: This template automatically creates a ticket in the ticketing integration application (e.g., ServiceNow or Jira Software).
- **Auto Escalate**: This template automatically escalates the incident to the user's manager or to an approver if the manager is not found in the system.
- **Auto Notify**: This template automatically notifies the user that generated the incident, through the configured channel (i.e., email, Slack, or Microsoft Teams).
- **Auto Notify User and Close Incident**: This template automatically notifies the user that generated the incident, through the configured channel (i.e., email, Slack, or Microsoft Teams), and closes the incident if a response is not received from the user after a configurable time period in seconds.
- **Auto Notify User and Concurrently Escalate**: This template automatically notifies the user that generated the incident, through the configured channel (i.e., email, Slack, or Microsoft Teams), as well as automatically escalates the incident to the manager or approver without waiting for a response from the user.
- **Auto Notify User and Escalate**: This template automatically notifies the user that generated the incident, through the configured channel (i.e., email, Slack, or Microsoft Teams), and escalates to their manager or approver if a response is not received from the user after a configurable time period in seconds.
- **Auto Notify User and Escalate to Manager**: This template automatically notifies the user that generated the incident, through the configured channel (i.e., email, Slack, or Microsoft Teams), and optionally escalates to their manager if a response is not received from the user after a configurable time period in seconds.
When you configure a custom workflow, you choose and configure the different steps and actions required for the workflow without using one of the templates.
To learn more, see [Managing Workflow Templates](/zia/managing-workflow-templates) and [Managing Workflows](/zia/managing-workflows).
After a predefined or custom workflow is configured, you must specify the incidents that use this workflow by mapping the workflow to one or more of the attributes available in an incident transaction. Then, when an incident occurs in your organization that contains those attributes, the workflow automatically triggers and performs those actions specified in the workflow. To learn more, see [Managing Workflow Mappings](/zia/managing-workflow-mappings).